you don't want recorded alright here we
are it's the recording has started now
hi everyone oh hello welcome to the ipfs
core implementations weekly sync it is
the 3rd of February it is 2020 already
and we're in the second run for ready
can you believe it
cool if you are here please add your
name to your attendees list I will post
the link in the chat just in case anyone
missed it mmm and if you have an async
update if you have been working on some
things and would like to update some
people on what you've been up to we
won't go through a sync updates in the
meeting but please do add them to the
bottom and so everyone can check out
what you've been up to and ask questions
he's synchronously but what we will do
now is we will go through our high
priority initiatives we have a
note-taker already Thank You Jacob so
high priority initiatives so let's get
started
upcoming and all shipped releases I have
an update here for well it's kind of an
update Jer cyberfest Syria 41 DRC is
landing imminently essentially I want to
publish it after this meeting so that's
cool there was a blog post and explain
about blog post to explain a lot of the
API changes that are happening in this
release the reef factors that have been
done and the reasons behind them and to
give everyone a chance to digest those
changes figure out what what it means
for them and their codebase and and and
hopefully get a head start on those
changes before they actually land so
that's been released the link is there
in the notes there are API changes in
the release issue and there's a
migration guide for your code
Jacob is here but since last time the
PTP has shipped not so much news I guess
other than it's there there's a blog
post in the in the pipeline
well done to everyone who has worked on
that and thank you that's really cool
news and the other final thing is that
go ipfs zero 4.23 got released a bug fix
release fixing some critical issues
there's also a blog post to explain what
is going on in that release on the
website
Jacob wall Steven do you have anything
to add to that to those notice no did
they go first release to the year okay
but no really so it appears to be
working I haven't had any complaints
about terrible things went wrong so
awesome cool so go check out those
releases and those release posts if you
haven't already let's move on to up
create testing infra and or process so
Steven David nonsense and Raul who's
nonsense again what's his name did you
its Anton yeah it's me Steven you wanna
do an update or show I you know okay so
from testament perspective many things
happened last week so we merged
compositions which is based to the
feature that allows you to run various
groups of different images on test
ground we merged a feature which allows
you to basically store anything that you
want from your test line on an s3 bucket
so now if you run let's say a thousand
no two amount with let's say the DHT
test plan you're free to store whatever
assets or artifacts you want on the s3
bucket and then easily browse through
them apart from that um many other small
improvements and tomorrow will probably
be ready with the version 0.1 release we
are just
up on the locks and the outputs part of
it so that's pretty much what's going on
I guess during tomorrow's go to be more
stuff communicated nice Thank You Anton
do you want to add a note to the
upcoming / shipped releases for the 0.1
release is there like a an issue with
some summary of what what is it just
everything it's pretty much a lot of
stuff so yeah I'll double-check tutorial
first and then we are definitely
announce it to everyone
super cool you said I'm just one quick
question groups of images what does that
mean exactly like groups of differently
configured nodes I'm guessing something
like that different versions of let's
say Lippe to be so that you have 10% of
the network with one version and let's
say 70% I talked with other version etc
cool awesome alright any questions or
additions to that okay we will move on
and next up we have content routing with
someone like to give an update on
content routine I think you given up to
Inger said yeah so testing is is moving
along been working on how to create like
sort of reproducible graphs and tests so
they can start D but like debugging the
difference between the two
implementations we have right now we've
gotten a predictable peer IDs like
working in tests the creating an
arbitrary mesh seems to be working so
far I put it we introduced like
introduced like a staging thing we're
sort of basically each peer in the test
runs one at a time
in order to avoid TCP simultaneous
connect issues which hopefully we can
get around a different way going forward
and then otherwise just trying to output
more information and visualize it to see
what's happening which included finding
a bug where we were sending more
information than we needed to when we
called fine peer that is where things
are at for now more more testing things
ongoing and I think Youssef may be here
I can't see him he said no no okay
okay well I think this assume the sign
the Redis updates from Yousef or maybe
some models yeah I put that in there
he's gonna be working
he got feedback last week from Raul so
he's gonna work on getting that feedback
done and just work trying to get it over
the hill while it's not a the biggest
priority and the grand scheme of content
routing it's almost done so we want to
just finish it now okay my update here
is also we have some open desks and know
what's currently working on these so if
you are finding yourself at loose ends
we have a son Athena's bow bug and let
me be this mu there for ages but like
we're not like basically it's something
we can fix easily but something we can
sort of work obviously the problem is
two pairs connect they both see the in
Banff connection so they cancel around
connection because they haven't seen
that finished yet in the gold walk away
what we'd like to do is just say file
they connect and they just keep two
connections and whatever we deal with it
the issue is on an improvements they're
fun to bugs in the ordinary build plenty
of relying on this so if you're just
this talk to me and all like when you
write different things I need to get
fixed here
finally tests if you're less familiar
with go we could really use help
like building tests especially I should
think they're a bunch of them leftover
bits well you could talk to Dirk I'm
sure he could handsome those off to you
like a lot of correctness tests not as I
just thought some great system like
thrashing Justin I'm sure Dirk has
things okay if you start working on
stuff or going to work on stuff please
let me know so I can make sure
everything's getting updated nice thank
you all I am I would like to help you
with that stuff I'm hoping that by next
time this next time we meet this time
that quick I will have been able to put
down the or hand over the reins to on
the JSI PSS train to the aching brain
Alex Co CDs and infant he could drive it
for a while and I can help out on the on
the content routing stuff I am excited
to get involved let's do it
but hopefully hopefully by the Sun that
fake the Jessica press release will be
out the door and I'll be freed up but
yeah if other people obviously you know
watching the cool want to help out then
also come help us we need help
alright rad content routing done set the
main gateway Lloyd who do you have an
update for us yep so a quick update is
that I got distracted
however the PR is in a pretty good shape
it's not ready yet it's still in the
draft
however we we got it to the point where
oh gosh I had it bookmarked and
criticized my window alright so we got
to the point when we are pretty happy I
believe with the configuration options
and it got pretty simple like the point
to the point where it's super simple so
it's just like a flag for controlling
opting in to the subdomains and then
specifying which gateway paths are
mounted on the subdomain what remains to
be done in the PR our harness tests for
all the edge cases I got distracted by
aquifers desktop release and that's like
zero for me and this
he won now so when I after I give us the
stop release I hope to finalize this
this week what we also agreed with
Stephen is kind of increasing a scope of
this PR a little bit and adding this
hardening of pathways gateways basically
there by default we would refuse to
store cookies and like refuse persisting
kinda storage on path address of
gateways and to do that we need like
additional flag for for users who put
stuff behind to reverse proxy and take
care of those nuances but that's the
only missing art I believe I'm sorry
everybody I realize now that I'm a
terrible person
increasing scope of PR is probably not
but I should have told you to do it's
not that big increase it's just like
another flag when you thread and if it's
simpler like it's whatever simpler I
give it some purchased emerge but we
currently have and then you this is a
second patch let's do that okay let's
make a separate alright that's it from
nice thank you later
any questions for the light oh well
we're here before we move on okay Brad
let me find the document where do we get
two bit swap updates Dirk do you have an
update for us yes I can verify the
Steven is not a terrible person
it's you reviewed my 9000 line PR the
bits are proof of concept and we finally
got it merged so that was pretty
exciting moment in my life probably the
best day of my life so far um so so
basically last week I spent quite a bit
of time doing performance profiling and
I made some grass and stuff there's a
link to an issue there that has all the
graphs in it a little bit of a little
bit of sieve analysis unless the graphs
you want to see him I want to see them
for the recording okay let me just go
[Music]
and pick thumbnail you guys see that yes
so so yeah his a few of the performance
analyses we were done this week so this
is comparing master or what was master
at the time so the old bit swap this is
the the Nuba top that we've just merged
so we're mostly concerned with how long
it takes to get stuff and a number of
duplicate blocks that get sent around in
other words extra data that we don't
really need to be sending if we're 100%
efficient so this first graph or this
first set of graphs is simulating a
network with five millisecond latency
and with varying bandwidth so this first
one is one gigabit this is hundred sixty
Meg's forty megabytes 20 megabytes and
ten megabits megabytes of bandwidth and
you can see the blue lines are the old
bit swap and the yellow orange and red
lines are the new bit swap so for
example at one gigabit bandwidth you can
see that these three red lines are a lot
faster than the blue lines so the
darkest line here is when there's four
seeds and one leech the next one is to
season one leech and this is when
there's once even one leech so the new
bits what outperforms orbits are pretty
significantly when there's high
bandwidth when we when we get down to
pretty low bandwidth it's quite similar
but still this still look quite a big
improvement there and then this set
graphs is just about comparing
performance when there's very variable
numbers of leeches in seats so in this
case there's three leeches and three
seeds so I guess the question we're
asking is are we taking advantage of
downloading from all the seeds or do we
sort of send all our traffic to one seed
and
see that the other line the new bid swap
performs significantly better than the
old bit so I particularly for high
bandwidth scenarios this one is about to
placate blocks so basically the new new
bid swamp doesn't really send duplicate
blocks um instead it sends out a request
to all the peers saying hey do you have
what I'm looking for and if they have it
they just say yes instead of actually
sending back a block so that it ends up
saving us a lot of duplicate information
and the last graph is just verifying
those results at 100 millisecond latency
what's up saving before I go on about
that no dude we don't just say we don't
have to franchise every block and said
the guy's one of the peer this block and
all the other peers do you have the
block we also have a feature really that
people come back until snow I don't have
a lot so we can me to leave like look at
the other peers I've said yes I have the
watch angel and ask them like one that
we know will actually work so it's not
like we have like two accurate requests
now it's more than like we have a
best-case one round trip
worst case two round trips instead of
like send a request wait for time to
have another request related to requests
wait for timeout said for requests wait
for timeout and they keep us any more of
a request if I don't get back ton of
watts office
thanks yeah that's that's a good point
yeah so basically we're able to just
take advantage of these new message
types to make things faster and more
more efficient so it's not 100% ready
yet as we still have to make a couple
little changes to make sure that the two
versions are interoperable that is that
the new version can still speak to nodes
running the old version and I'm still
writing a few kind of like fuzz testing
plans and things like that we're pretty
close any questions that sounds awesome
I'm really excited
can I request that you because you did a
presentation on the changes that you
were gonna make a while ago can you put
a link to that in the in the notes that
if anyone wants to check it out and they
can get a good overview of what's
actually changing yeah sweet all right
let's move on I know we're running a bit
behind but that was that was worth it
so we've got stream based content based
no stream content based junking research
/ improvements catchy Peter would you
like to give us an update yes
so last ones the end I actually got most
of the work done on the tool member I
think to be able to evaluate different
options for a change in the algorithms
then I had a meeting with Eric who told
me a lot of stuff about so as a result
of that I'm a little bit in writing the
entire thing like there is not a single
medical care anymore but I am close
enough for us to be able to miss this
tomorrow when the decides to basically
be able to be read things I'll have to
say later today but yeah it will get to
that place and yeah I'm still on track
to hopefully to to community post
beginning collapsing outside and before
I go I posted for stem this weekend I
really have to put this on camera like I
got a t-shirt that way is that Inigo
Montoya who is less know this is the
this is the magic beam from from I don't
know from where but yeah this is
actually official by matter most and
they don't even have it is
love it thank you all right cool thank
you everyone for your updates on
initiatives the we have a section called
other initiatives these are initiatives
that are like in backlog or on pause or
but are still in in they are in cold
storage waiting for us to bring them
back to life again at some point we have
a question on universe 1.5 yes any
chance we could get this in now so we
can have cross compatibility
yes that's yes I mean maybe there is a
chance later I just want to ask okay
shape we get enough for monkeys with
enough keyboards and then eventually one
of them time okay the next one is a team
you had a lot of numbers from the XS add
improvements but no numbers that you can
publish and we have new like a cell on
it takes to add good to but we also old
the cell long takes a de motu but
they're into the machine is there any
chance you have like all the cell on
takes a dip into on the same machine
other questions around this the one that
I'm using right now is that it
previously took 24 minutes to add arch
linux and now it took 11 minutes to add
arch linux and I think those are our you
know apples to apples but I'm not a
hundred percent sure so if we just like
update the issue where we liked it all
of that add performance work with like
you know here's what it used to be like
the table of the times that would be
really useful for you don't link to
something that people don't have to like
scroll to in-flight comments that like
tell you one side or the other and like
read through it in order to validate
like yes Molly isn't lying to me in a
blog post so that would that would make
that be snazzy if we have those things
available
I mean all of my all of the data is that
I have offhand is on the issue I can run
the tests again it just will take an
hour or something but that's fine I
think most always like put them all in
the same place in the issue okay like
king yeah because they were taking like
one you know one day at a time
so like smoke him altogether okay yeah
like the the first price music results
something like that smoosh them okay all
right we were happy with that nice okay
then we got to distribute signaling
should kick off should kick back off so
I'm having real trouble actually reading
words at the moment should kick back off
later this quarter that's cool
multi migration to multi hash keys in
the Box store for everyone actually for
others with this for distributed
signaling yes so for things that have
web RTC transports yes so basically the
idea as part of this we'd also need
direct connection upgrades so we would
use a limited circuit relay connect over
that distribute over the relay and then
then merge but in theory any node that
we're mutually connected to could serve
as the signal err okay so this is plenty
this is using to recognition upgrades
the same yeah it season same thing we're
doing okay
moving on yeah multi hash migration
tamales in book store it's something
here so I was watching the magic gift
take me longer to get back to here than
I expected
Thank You Hector that's cool all right
design review proposals there is a
proposal for ignoring the tea size
property in dak PB links is happening on
to morrow at 3:00 p.m. GMT if you'd like
to come and talk about that then please
add your name to the list and we will
invite you to the meeting and he take us
put your name on the list in the notes
all right
block has and asks any last-minute
buckles mask so people think of okay
questions any last-minute question
things for the parking lot wonder if
anyone will be interested in now or or
pushing this off till later have any
discussion I'm like I'll find Pierre
should work it seems like it's probably
not trivial
we're not obvious that actually continue
working the same way that it works right
now which is that it just says Oh
someone gave me an address that's
probably right and then gives up that
may not be true going forward and we
have things like signed records and
other stuff and so the way to do this is
not obvious I think this discussion has
to be had with the b-team man like
should we do a design review like this
week or should we do something like
further down the road well sorry about
how it brings up flippity meeting which
i think is in like yeah how are some
like that yes I'd be interested if I can
make it alright
talking okay anything else from anyone
else we've kind of reached the end of
document and it's six o'clock in my
timezone yes anyone wasn't staring at
the tap just when I introduced Fabio
who's joining the party front you can
pronounce your name appropriately I'm
bad at the Portuguese pronunciations but
joining the test crime team is a TPM
he's fabulous
Fabio martini exactly
why everyone I'm the newest member of
protocol apps from Moxie and I'm really
excited to with this opportunity to work
with an international team it will be a
big challenge for me because I never
worked remotely but I think with my good
communication skills I will be I will be
successful with your help of course so
let's do it
thank you
red welcome cool and thanks for coming
to the meeting okay
alright um are we done
yeah I think we're done all right thanks
everyone for coming it's been basically
fun times to see your face again and I
will see you this time next week most
likely for another exciting round of
ipfs core implementations weekly all
right bye